Contact

+491638504970  (Mobile)

bpradhan.asli@gmail.com

www.linkedin.com/in/i-binay

(LinkedIn)

binaypradhan.com  (Personal)

## Top Skills

Predictive Modeling

Project Management

Neuroscience

## Languages

German  (Elementary)

Hindi  (Full Professional)

Odia  (Professional Working)

English  (Full Professional)

## Honors-Awards

Best Idea in Dell Codefest 2017

Smart India Hackathon 2018

software Edition Finalist

3rd Best Performer at RangManch

SPOT Award

GEM Award for the month

## Publications

Improving Code-mixed POS Tagging

Using Code-mixed Embeddings

# Binay Kumar Pradhan

M.Sc. Artificial Intelligence | Research Assistant | Data Scientist |

MLE | MLOps

Cottbus, Brandenburg, Germany

# Summary

I enjoy programming and creating solutions using it.

My expertise lies in system design, speech recognition models,

model pruning and applying reinforcement learning methodologies.

I’m driven by ethical implications of AI and committed towards

advancing technology responsibly.

Outside of work, I go for solo hiking expeditions, cook new cuisine or

participate in hackathons.

I cordially invite you to visit my website for further insights into my

professional profile.

https://binaypradhan.com

# Experience

Brandenburgische Technische Universität Cottbus-Senftenberg

1 year 10 months

Research Assistant

October 2023 - March 2025  (1 year 6 months)

Cottbus, Brandenburg, Germany

- Tasked with assisting research scholars in their thesis and Integrating AI

systems into PassiveBCI technologies.

- Created a toolbox to provide real-time eye-tracking metrics, including fixation

and saccade analysis along with a validation tool to evaluate the performance

of the eye tracking device.

Employed under the chair of Neuroadaptive Labs Brain-Human Interactions,

Faculty 1 guided by Ms. Diana Gherman and Dr. Marius Klug

Research Assistant

June 2023 - January 2024  (8 months)

> Page 1of 5

Cottbus, Brandenburg, Germany

Tasked with managing Database, fetching data points from test cases, creating

a vizualizer tool with subroutine to JAVA. Additionally minimization of stockyard

management time cost using reinforcement learning in contrast to constraint

programming approach.

Employed under the chair of Programming Language and Compiler

Construction, Faculty 1.

Mentor: Prof. Dr. Petra Hofstedt and Dr. Sven Löffler

Fasal - Grow More, Grow Better™

AI Data Engineer

May 2022 - September 2022  (5 months)

Bengaluru, Karnataka, India

- Performed Part of ETL activities and migration of datamart from GCP to

PostgreSQL

- Created and deployed AWS lambda functions using serverless framework

- Developed a json based logger and published it to pypi (https://pypi.org/

project/fasal-logger/)

- Validated sagemaker pipelines as a replacement for kubeflow

- Code optimization from development to production to decrease the resource

consumption and deployment latency

Myelin Foundry

Software Engineer - 2

October 2021 - March 2022  (6 months)

Bengaluru, Karnataka, India

- Created AI solutions for an edge In-Car digital assistance using Mediapipe's

face+hand mesh model to recognise hand gesture performed, leveraged the

FER+ & AffectNet dataset to create models (.tflite quantized model) to do facial

emotion recognition and retrained a YOLOv5 pre-trained model to perform

object detection on selective classes.

- Work closely with the Android team to refactor python codes to JAVA and

deploy it on edge devices and create dashboards for the client to analyse the

data generated by the app.

Utopia Global, Inc.

2 years 10 months

Data Science Engineer

> Page 2of 5

April 2020 - October 2021  (1 year 7 months)

Bengaluru, Karnataka, India

- Included a caching mechanism to reduce latency to attribute mapping tool's

plugins and refactored the codebase of other developers in the team to OOPs

style to enhance scalability to batch and single file processing.

- Demonstrated POC on the use-case of Transformers and BERT models for

text parsing and Implemented a regex-based text parsing on top of ML-based

parser for consensus voting and conceptualised reinforcement learning to

implement feedback received in real-time along with GraphQL API

- Assisted on the configuration of AWS SPOT instance for multiple projects

and load distribution on the development server and set up CI/CD tool for the

team.

- Performed monthly validation of Docstrings, Documentation, Versioning,

Changelogs to 4C package.

- Created customised UIs for the clients to be used as an endpoint to the 4C

package (A Data cleansing product).

- Provided quarterly KT to the team on new updates made to the product.

- Trained coworkers with a hands-on workshop on python, machine learning

and a few data analysis libraries.

Trainee - Data Science

July 2019 - April 2020  (10 months)

Bengaluru, Karnataka, India

- Identified the bottleneck of the data cleansing tools and refactored them to

be used as a subpackage to 4C (A Data cleansing product) and Improved

text mapping tool architecture to get 15X better performance with 85% filling

accuracy.

- Created a REST API framework to expose each tool of the 4C package to

extend to other solutions

- Addressed security vulnerabilities in the codebase of 4C package.

> Page 3of 5

- Created scripts to automate Data Migration from the local system to the

database which was used by the EAM team as master data in the SAP

products

Machine Learning Intern

January 2019 - June 2019  (6 months)

Bengaluru, Karnataka, India

- Developed a text mapping tool for the EAM delivery team using word

embeddings to categorise them into different buckets.

- Designed a new architecture for the text standardization tool and refactored

the codebase to be used as a data-driven algorithm.

- Orchestrated the tools of 4C (A Data cleansing product) using Makefile for

batch file run capability.

Institute for Development and Research in Banking Technology

(IDRBT)

Research Intern

May 2018 - July 2018  (3 months)

Hyderabad, Telangana, India

- Worked on an NLP problem of POS (Part of speech) recognition for mixed-

script social media texts.

- Crawled Twitter for Hindi mixed-script dialogues and labelled the dataset for

the NLP tasks.

- Assisted fellow research scholar in developing a deep learning POS tagger

and documenting journal for the same.

# Education

Brandenburgische Technische Universität Cottbus-Senftenberg

Master's degree, Artificial Intelligence  · (October 2022)

International Institute of Information Technology, Bhubaneswar

Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.), Information Technology  · (2015 - 2019)

Kalinga Bharti Residential College, Cuttack

Intermediate, Science  · (2012 - 2014)

> Page 4of 5

St. Mary's School,Barbil

Matriculation  · (2007 - 2012)
